# Huawei Cloud

### VPC
VPC provides secure and isolated network based on tunneling technologies
- By default VPC cant communicate to internet, untill you have EIP, ELB, NAT GW or Direct Connetc.
- VPC Perring for communicating with other VPC
- High Speed access: upto 21 dynamic BGP Connections are established with carrier

### VPC Congiguration 
- Each VPC comes with a default subnet, you can add more as per requirements.
- CIDR block of a subnet for VPC, Supported CIDR blocks are 10.0.0.0/8-24, 172.16.0.0/12-24 and 192.168.0.0/16-24
- DNS and DHCP is available
- If 2 ECSs are in smae SG but in different VPCs, they cannot communictae

## EIP
- Each EIP can work with only one cloud resource at a time
- EIP can be used with ECS, ELB, BMS
- Application Scenario
-- Bind EIP to give internet access
-- Binding EIP to a NAT Gateway (binding NAT GW and SNAT & DNAT rules adding)
-- Binding EIP to a Load Balancer

1. SNAT - Allows servers ina specific VPC subnets to use the same EIP to access the internet
2. DNAT - Enables servers in a VPC to provide services accessible from the Internet.

## Security Group
By default, SG allows all outbound and denies iall inbound traffic

## VPC Peering
Network connection between two VPCs in the same region (two VPC can of same account or diffent account [that needs approval too])


## NACL
- Network ACL, control access to subnets and add an additional layer of defense of subnet.
- NACL with multiple subnets, However a subnet can only b associated with one NACL at a time
- NACL is stateful.

## Virtual IP Address
VIP can be shared among multiple ECSs.

<br>
Networking Mode:

1. High Availability of ECSs
2. High Availability of Load Balancing Cluster

## ENI
- Elastic Network Interface, a virtual network card
- Primary NIC cannot be deatacched from its instance.
- Elastic network Interface and extention NIC cannot be directly access Huawei Cloud services such as DNS.(VPCEP can be usedto access these services)

## IP Address Group
A collection of IP addresses, can be associated with SG and NACL to simplify IP address configuration and management.


# Compute

## BMS 













