# Huawei Cloud O&M 

## Cloud Eye
- Real Time monitoring and multiple notification types
- Cloud Eye is multidimensional monitoring service 
- to set alarm rules, identify Resource expections and quickly respond to resource change 
- Automatic Monitoring, Real Time notification, Panels (Display key metric and provides overview of resource) 
- Monitoring Data transfer to OBS  (as Cloud Eye keeps data only for 2 days)

**Application Scienario**
- E-Commerce 
- Enterprise Office 

**Panels** to view core metric and compare Performance data of , up to 20 panels. 
Metric is a time-dependent variable .
Server Monitoring
- Basic Monitoring
- OS Monitoring
- Process Monitoring 

CPU/Memory and process are runing <br>

Website Monitoring is available in a region for free. 
<br>
Event Monitoring, You can query system and custom Event reported to Cloud.

## LTS 
- Log Search and Statistic analysis


- Logs generated by system process collected in a centralized Management
- Log query and real time analysis 
- Log monitoring 
- Log Transfer to OBS

- It can inguest logs up to 200 TB/day.
- LTS keeps your logs secure with HTTPS 
- ICAgent collects and send logs .

<br>

**Log Group**: basic unit in LTS <br>
**Log Stream**: log read and write. <br> 
**ICAgent**:log collection tool. <br>

LTS works with AOM for logs. 



## CTS 
- Compliance audit and Security analysis
- Auditing is process of of gathering and analayze evidance.
- CTS records operations an cloud resource (Called Trace in cloud)
- Traces saves in OBS

CTS Architecture 
- Trace Collection 
- Trace Query 
- Trace Transfer 
- Trace File Encryption (DEW)

**Tracker** Automatically creates when a CTS is enabled. and identifies all cloud services and records  all opertaions perfomed on service.
**Trace** Opertaion records captured and stored by CTS. help you identify when a specific opertaion was performed by specific user on specific resoource. 
- Manage Trace: Traces reported by cloud services.
- Data Trace : Traces of read and write operations reported by OBS. 


=====================

## Three Tier Application

Install 
``yum install -y httpd php php-fpm php-server php-mysql mysql``

upate 
``vim /etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf`` goto last line and edit `ServerName localhost:80`
then download wordpress `wget -c https://wordpress.org/wordpress-4.9.10.tar.gz` and decompress it by `tar -zxvf wordpress-4.9.10.tar.gz -C /var/www/html` gitve Permission `chmod -R 777 /var/www/html`
Start service of httpd by `systemctl start httpd` and php by `systemctl start php-fpm` later enable both of them by  `systemctl enable httpd` and `systemctl enable php-fpm`