# Chap 03

### Manual Schedulling 
Assigining pod manually to a specific node using `nodename` in descriptive mode. 

`kubectl replace` command use to delete old and create new one. Syntax is `kubectl replace --force -f <filename>`

### Labels & Selectors
Labels are being used to classified and selecting resources (for Service, ReplicaSet)


`kubectl get pod --selector key=value --no-headers | wc -l` for getting number pods with a specific Label using command wc -l 
`kubectl get pod --show-labels`

### Taints and Tolerations
- Taints on node
- Tolerations on pod

`kubectl taint nodes <node-name> key=value:taint-effect`

- NoSchedule
- PrefereNoSchedule
- NoExecute

Taint is already set to Master Node so no workload to be Schedulled on master node

## Node Selectors

By using labels on Node, we can suggest pod to be Schedulled on desired node. But there is a challenge associated, only single value can be be selected based on .

## Node Affinity
Ensure Pod is hosted on desired host, other then NodeSelector, it has feature to apply multiple key/value options 
There are multiple operators 
- Exists
- In  
- NotIn 


```yaml
affinity:
  nodeAffinity:
    requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoreDuringExecution:
      nodeSelectorTerms:
      - matchExpressions:
        - key: size
          operator: NotIn
          values:
          - Small
          - Mid 
```
required
| |DuringScheduling | DuringExecution |
| :-----------: |:-------------:| :-----:|
|Type 1 |Required  | Ignored |
|Type 2 |Preffered | Ignored |
|Type 3 |Required | Required |
|Type 4 |Preffered | Required |


## Resource Request and Limit

- By default no limit on CPU & Memmory. 
- CPU can be trottled but if Memory exceeds it brust
- 100m = 0.1 core 
- 1 AWS vCPU = 1 GCP core = 1 Azure Core = 1 Hyperthread


## Request Quotas
Total Resource of a namespace.

## Eiditing a Pod
Only editable specification of an existing pod 
- spec.container[*].image 
- spec.initContainer[*].image 
- spec.activeDeadlineSeconds
- spec.Tolerations

else you can run `kubectl edit pod`command, then make changes and it will be saved in seprate file (as field are not editable). Tehn you create new resource and delete old one. <br>
Another option to extract the pod defination in YAML as `kubectl get pod webapp -o yaml >&nbsp;my-new-pod.yaml` then make required changes and execute.
 <br> 
With Deployments, you can easily edit any field/property of the POD template as `kubectl edit deployment my-deployment`

`kubectl replace --force`

## Daemon set
DaemonSet ensure atleast a pod is available in each node, Like KubeProxy and CNI pods need to be available to each node
specification of DaemonSet is same as Deployment except of kind.

By using nodeName we can bypass Scheduler till 1.12.  From v1.12 it uses nodeAffinity and default Scheduler


## Static POD
If no master or any issue in compoent of master, Worker Node (Kubelet) may know create pod as static pod. 
Kubelet can YAML configuration from `/etc/kubernetes/mainfests` (this path can be changed as pod-mainifest-path in kublet.service or you can add a `staticPodPath: /etc/kubernetes/manifests` in kubeconfig.yaml) and create pod known as Static POD. It cant create Deployment, ReplicaSet as it required otehr compents as well. 
<br>
For checking Static Pod, use `docker ps` for Docker , `crictl ps` for Cri-o and `nerdctl ps` for containerd , as there is no api-server to run kubectl
- One way to check Static Pod `kubectl get pod` and find pod name with node-name and other way to use `kubectl describe` and find ownerReference if its is node

## Multiple Scheduler




---
$$ Section 03 Lecture 14 Static Pod
