# Import & Export Kubernetes respources


`oc extract secret <resource/name>` for extract in currect directory

`oc extract secret secret/dep-ty7sh --to-./tmp` for extract in temp directory


- Declarative : `oc apply` Focus on stating the desired state rather than the steps to achieve it; 
  - If resource doesnt exist , it creates 
  - IF resource exsist, Openshift updates it changing what is differant from current. 
  - Fo immutable resources properties use `oc apply --force`
- Imperative  : `oc create`  , `oc delete` , `oc replace` , `oc edit` for edit resources configuration directly in the terminal. 

## Container Image 

- OpenShift uses **ImageStream** to manage images
- Images stored in internal OpenShift image registry or external registries like [quay.io](Quay.io) or Docker Hub

`oc get imagestream -n openshift` to list of all image steam in openshift
`oc describe imagestream <NAME> -n  openshift` to inspect image 

### Projects
OpenShift Projects = Kubernetes Namespaces with additional annotations and metadata.

`oc new-project <projectname>` to create Project

`oc new-app --name=<anem> --image=openshift/hello-openshift` for creating new resource.

run `oc project` to see list/details of Projects

--- Caution: Deleting Project will also delete resources in it.


Run `oc get pod --all-namespace` to show pods of all namespaces

Run `oc status` to see status of Cluster in Openshift

By running  `oc get componentstatuses` to list status of each components 

To get information & status of each node `oc adm top nodes` 

`oc adm top nodes --sort-by=cpu` arranges CPU utilization of each. 

`oc adm top pods` to see cpu usuage of each pods 

### Logs

`oc logs -f bc/<build-config-name>` logs for recent build config

`oc logs -f deployment/<deployment-name>` for deployment logs . 

`oc adm node-logs <node-name>` for logs of nodes


Check Container name using `oc describe pod <pod-name>` then run `oc logs <pod-name> -c <container-name>` to get logs of container. 


### Health of OpenShift Cluster
- Nodes 
- etcd : Central store for cluster configuration and state information

`oc -n openSsift-etcd rsh etcd-crc` to see status of etcd pods 

`oc get clusteroperator` list of cluster operator
It has three fields 
- Available 
- Progressing
- Degraded 

### Troubleshooting
- Check logs 
- Exit codes and error messages for root cause 
- Exceeding resource limit
- Pod struck in pending state
- etcd issues
  - High utilization, network
  - `etcdctl` command for checking health status, view
- Use network diagnostic by `oc exec my-pod --ping <another-pod>`

### Offical Documentation

Use [docs.openshift.com](docs.openshift.com) for Offical Documentation.

You may run `oc help create` to get help / information <br>

Or you can add ``--help` in end of any command to get information / help 